So before we move onto the next section I want to talk more about short codes.
We've used short codes to display forms but I haven't really gone beyond that.
In this lecture we'll explore more about what you can do with short codes.
We're going to keep things simple.
I want to create a button where the user will be taken to a Twitter page inside the main plugin file
add a new short code.
I'm going to call it Twitter follow.
I'm not going to bother names spacing it since this will be a rather generic short code.
The function to call will be named our twitter follow short code inside the short codes folder create
a file named Twitter dash followed up BHP and define the function here.
Lastly included
basically a short code is very simple.
You just have to return a String and that's what will be output it onto the screen.
We can take this a step further by allowing the user to add attributes and content just like a regular
HCM email tag.
Let's set things up first.
I'm going to paste in the following code.
There's nothing special going on here.
I'm just returning a link with some classes applied to it to make it look nice.
I also have this nice little Twitter icon.
This is completely static and we'll take the user to Twitter.
I'm going to create a brand new page and use this short code.
I want you to do the same.
Make sure you publish the page.
All right so I'm on the page and as you can see the short code is working as intended.
This is nothing we haven't done before the real power of short codes comes from allowing users to customize
its behavior.
Let's start with that you use just like regular HDMI all short codes can have attributes and they are
written in the same fashion back inside the edit page.
I'm going to add an attribute called handle with the value of Udemy you can name your attributes whatever
you want but WordPress does have a few rules in the resource section of this lecture I provide a link
to the short codes API.
This page gives really great explanations about how to use the short codes API.
If you scroll down a bit you'll find that WordPress says important tip.
Don't use camel case or uppercase for your attribute names.
We're going to keep things simple and just use all lowercase letters.
Now that we're specifying an attribute we can use it inside the code back inside the function.
You can accept all the attributes by adding the parameter acts.
This will be an array with all the attributes where the key is the name of the attribute and the value
is the value itself.
Before we use any attributes it's always good practice to make sure each one has the default value.
I'm going to reassign my attributes to the function short code adds.
This is a special function meant especially for short codes.
It will take in an array of attributes and make sure all default values are set.
The first parameter is an array of default attributes.
I only have one attribute which is handle and I'm going to give this a default value of you to me the
second parameter to this function is the attributes itself.
So what this will do is set a default value for the handle attribute.
If the user didn't input this attribute we can now use this.
I'm going to replace the static link with the handle name and use the attribute handle instead
just like that the handle name will be dynamic.
I'm going to refresh the page and the links should be updated.
So that's one way to extend short codes.
The next thing you can do with sort codes is using closed sort codes.
If you look at the short code on the edit page you'll notice it's by itself.
However just like h t email tags we can add an enclosed version like some it's just a short code itself.
But this time you're adding in a forward slash you let WordPress know where it ends.
Anything placed in between these two short codes will be passed into our function.
I'm going to set this to follow us.
Let's go back to the function and accept this new data inside the parameters.
I can add a second parameter called content.
This will contain the text inside an enclosed short code.
Keep in mind that enclosed short codes are optional for users.
I'm going to set this to a default value which will be no.
Then I'm going to replace this text with the content variable like so I'm going to refresh the page
and as you can see the text inside the button was replaced short codes are very simple to use as a user
and developer.
They do make our code look cleaner and more readable.
There is one last thing I want to show you.
The content placed inside the enclosed short codes can also contain HCM CML and even shorter codes.
However short codes cannot be processed by short codes.
Naturally if you would like to process short codes inside a short code then you'll need to do one simple
thing back inside the function.
I'm going to wrap the content variable with a function called do short code this function does as its
name suggests it will take in a string and process the code inside it'll process short codes.
If there are any.
Just like that our short code now supports short codes.
This is optional to do because I usually recommended.
If you have a short code that's very complex and you want it to be flexible.
All right.
That's basically it for short codes.
You can read the documentation to learn more cool tips and tricks for using short codes.